docs(css): Fx117 - new pages for basic shape functions rect() and xywh() (#28565)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/basic-shape/xywh/index.md

---
title: xywh()
slug: Web/CSS/basic-shape/xywh
page-type: css-function
browser-compat: css.types.basic-shape.xywh
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`xywh()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) function creates a rectangle at the specified offsets from the top and left edges of the reference box, with the specified width and height dimensions. It is a basic shape function of the {{cssxref("&lt;basic-shape&gt;")}} [data type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Types). CSS properties such as {{cssxref("clip-path")}} and {{cssxref("offset-path")}} use the `xywh()` function to create the rectangular shape path along which an element moves.

Reviewer: same comment as above. it's not just about motion

## Syntax

```css

> offset-path: xywh(0px 1% 2px 3% round 0px 1px 2% 3px);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
offset-path: xywh(0 1% 2px 3% round 0 1px 2% 3px);
```

Author: Also added an example for `clip-path`:

> `clip-path: xywh(1px 2% 3px 4em round 0px 1% 2px 3em);`

```

### Values

- `<length-percentage>`
  - : Specifies the {{cssxref("&lt;length-percentage&gt;")}} values for the `x` and `y` coordinates of the rectangle.
- `<length-percentage [0,∞]>`

>   - : Specifies non-negative {{cssxref("&lt;length-percentage&gt;")}} values for the width and height of the rectangle. The minimum value can be zero, and the maximum value has no limit.

Reviewer: i assume the dimensions are constrained to the boundary of the reference box. let's say that.

Author: From the behavior in "Examples", it does not seem that width and height are controlled by reference box. I tried using values like `500px` and `600px` for width and height and they are not limited by the reference box boundary.

Reviewer: OMG, that is the weirdest effect ever

- `round <border-radius>`
  - : Specifies the radius of the rounded corners of the rectangle using the {{cssxref("border-radius")}} shorthand syntax. This parameter is optional.

## Examples

### Creating offset-path using xywh()

> In the example below, the {{cssxref("offset-path")}} property uses the `xywh()` function to define the shape of the path on which the element, red box in this case, moves. Two different scenarios are shown, each using different values for the `xywh()` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, the {{cssxref("offset-path")}} property uses the `xywh()` function to define the shape of the path on which the element, a magenta box in this case, moves. Two different scenarios are shown, each with different values for the `xywh()` function.
```

## Syntax

```css
offset-path: xywh(0 1% 2px 3% round 0 1px 2% 3px);
clip-path: xywh(1px 2% 3px 4em round 0px 1% 2px 3em);
```

### Values

- `<length-percentage>`
  - : Specifies the {{cssxref("&lt;length-percentage&gt;")}} values for the `x` and `y` coordinates of the rectangle.
- `<length-percentage [0,∞]>`
  - : Specifies non-negative {{cssxref("&lt;length-percentage&gt;")}} values for the width and height of the rectangle. The minimum value can be zero, and the maximum value has no limit.
- `round <border-radius>`
  - : Specifies the radius of the rounded corners of the rectangle using the same syntax as the CSS [border-radius](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/border-radius) shorthand property. This parameter is optional.

## Examples

### Creating offset-path using xywh()

> In the example below, the {{cssxref("offset-path")}} property uses the `xywh()` function to define the shape of the path on which the element, a magenta box in this case, moves. Two different scenarios are shown, each with different values for the `xywh()` function.

Reviewer: My suggestion is to make the first example a bit more basic; like `xywh( 20px 20px 100% 100% round 10%)`, so it's the same size at the container, just offset by 20px, and then the second one have a height of 200%. Then the first one you comment on how the arrow follows the curve of the border (basically, what does round do*), and the second you comment on how the width or height can really be infinity. 

*This isn't about the path, so the fact that it flips doesn't need to be explained, but linking to offset-path to learn more is an option.

> In the example below, the {{cssxref("offset-path")}} property uses the `xywh()` function to define the shape of the path on which the element, a magenta box in this case, moves. Two different scenarios are shown, each with different values for the `xywh()` function.

Author: - Done, updated the example. Thanks for the hints.

- I am not sure I understand "inline end edge of the box". Is this what we want to say:
"The arrow inside the box points to the right edge of the box."

---
title: xywh()
slug: Web/CSS/basic-shape/xywh
page-type: css-function
browser-compat: css.types.basic-shape.xywh
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`xywh()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) function creates a rectangle at the specified offsets from the top and left edges of the reference box, with the specified width and height dimensions. It is a basic shape function of the {{cssxref("&lt;basic-shape&gt;")}} [data type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Types). You can use the `xywh()` function in CSS properties such as {{cssxref("offset-path")}} to create the rectangular path along which an element moves and in {{cssxref("clip-path")}} to define the shape of the clipping region.

Author: Updating to the following text as used in the `<basic-shape>` page:

> The **`xywh()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) function creates a rectangle using the specified distances from the left (`x`) and top (`y`) edges of the containing block and the specified width (`w`) and height (`h`) of the rectangle.

  Rectangular path 1
  <div class="path xywh-path-1">→</div>
</div>
<div class="container">
  Rectangular path 2
  <div class="path xywh-path-2">→</div>
</div>
```

```css
.container {
  position: relative;
  display: inline-block;
  width: 200px;
  height: 200px;
  border: 1px solid black;
  margin: 30px;
  text-align: center;
}

.path {
  width: 50px;
  height: 50px;
  position: absolute;
  background-color: magenta;
  animation: move 10s linear infinite;
}

.xywh-path-1 {
  offset-path: xywh(20px 20px 100% 100% round 10%);
}

.xywh-path-2 {
  offset-path: xywh(20px 30% 150% 200%);
}

@keyframes move {
  0% {
    offset-distance: 0%;
  }
  100% {
    offset-distance: 100%;
  }
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Creating offset-path using xywh", "100%", 600)}}

- The path 1 rectangle is offset by `20px` from the left and top edges of the containing block. This path rectangle has the same dimension as the containing block, that is, the width is `100%` of the width of the containing block, and the height is `100%` of the height of the containing block. Notice how the arrow inside the box follows the `10%` curve (defined by `round 10%`) at the rectangular path corners.

> - Notice the dimension of the path 2 rectangle. The upper limit of both width and height is infinity. Also notice how the arrow inside the box behaves at the corners when no `round <'border-radius'>` is specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Notice the dimension of the path 2 rectangle. As the upper limit of both width and height is infinity, setting the height to 200% makes the generated rectangle twice as tall as it's reference box. Also, notice how the arrow inside the box behaves at the corners when no `round <'border-radius'>` is specified.
```
